In 1938 William T Dillard founded
a store in Nashville Arkansas,
a southern state of the United States.
Today, that store has grown into
approximately 300 department stores
in 29 states across
United States of America, and
each one of those stores has
the same name, Dillard's.
Pictured here is one of our local
Dillard's stores in North Carolina.
Dillard's sells all kinds of merchandise,
from clothing, to accessories,
to home decor.
It has departments targeted towards women,
as well as departments
targeted towards men.
It is a very popular place to shop.
Luckily, for us in this class, it is also
a store that collects a lot of data.
Like most stores, when you are ready
to purchase an item in Dillard's,
you bring it to a sales associate
working at a cash register.
The sales associate will take the item and
use the bar code reader to
scan the bar code on the tag that
took the store attached the item.
This information from the bar code is sent
to a centralized database where it is
stored in a transaction table.
When the customer pays for
the item, the payment details are also
sent to the transaction table.
The receipt is printed and
the transaction is completed.
Hundreds of millions of purchase
transactions are recorded at
Dillard's per year.
This provides a terrific opportunity to
use business analytics tools to learn what
factors influence customer purchasing.
In this course, we are extraordinarily
fortunate to have a year of Dillard's
sales transaction data from
August 2004 through July 2005.
The transaction data includes exactly what
items were included in each transaction,
how much they cost, when the purchase was
made, and where the purchase was made.
Additionally, there are census
information about the metropolitan's
statistical area surrounding the store
in which the purchase was made.
This information is spread across
six tables ranging from 60 to
over 120 million rows and size.
Dillard's donated this data set to
the Walton School of Business at
the University of Arkansas.
Walton school of business has very
generously agreed to partner with us to
provide students in this course with
the opportunity to practice querying and
analyzing a real enterprise data set.
Dillard's has become very interested
in data analytics over the years.
So use this data set as an opportunity to
get a sense of what it would feel like
to work for a very big company who
truly values making business decisions
based on insight from a very big data.